# Fresh-Tracks
A project coded in python using Spotipy and Spotify's API

For my Application Programming for Information System class at Syracuse University, my partner and I decided to create an app using Spotify's api. We used the light weight version of Spotify--Spotipy which was built for python-- and using Spotify for authentication and authorization from the user to access and modify their public playlist. Our project gives the user three options. A option to view a list of all their playlist, inputting an artist to receive song recommendation based on that artist and put them in a playlist we create for them, and input the weather for their location and get a playlist based on the weather. So if it is sunny, we output a happy playlist. For the weather option, we use the DarkSky API to get the weather for their location; the Sentiment Analysis API for the mood associated with the weather and the Spotify API to output a playlist of songs associated with the mood.

As huge music lover, our motivation behind this project was to simplify the music recommendation process and introduce a new way to discover a playlist, which was through the weather and the mood associated with the weather. Traditionally streaming services will provide recommendations based on a long history of music listening.  This must be built over a long period of time and takes commitment to the service to receive accurate recommendation.  Our program simplifies recommendation and allows for simple music generation.  All that is needed is a single line of input and the user can listen to the music that they want to hear.  It is especially useful for music listeners who want to hear good music, but don’t want to put time in for music discovery.  Music is not a massive part of everyone’s life, but this should not limit their pleasure of listening. By combining API’s offered by Spotify, our music recommendation program will be able to take a range of various inputs.  This program will be a staple for the casual music listener.

